welcome to fit Beginnings fit Beginnings
is a wellness program for new and
expectant mothers focusing on Fitness
and education this DVD is the first of a
series of DVDs that will help you stay
fit during and after your pregnancy
today you will experience ha yoga power
yoga calini yoga and pilates combination
of these methods will empower for you
with strength flexibility balance but
perhaps most importantly the ability to
let go of stress and focus on the
positive in your life I'm Tammy I'm a
mother of four labor and delivery nurse
and a fitness instructor let me
introduce you to Monica Monica is in her
fifth month of her pregnancy she will be
showing you a less intense version of
our workout today and this is Misty
Miss's in her seventh month of her
pregnancy she will be showing you a more
advanced version of the workout today so
follow whoever you like you will need a
towel for today's workout we're going to
start in a seated position remember to
drink plenty of water throughout your
workout today go ahead and help yourself
to the
floor reach for your towel now this
towel is going to create a bump so you
can sit on the towel and then actually
allow your hips just to come forward
that will help your spine lengthen now
just bring the hands forward relaxing
through your shoulders relaxing through
your neck I want you to think about
connecting with your baby place your
right hand on your belly your left hand
on your heart and just take a couple
deep breaths in inhaling through the
nose exhaling through the mouth as if
you were making fog on a
window your eyes can be closed as you
think about that little baby growing
inside you and you providing a positive
environment for that little baby one
more breath
inhale and
exhale good relaxing your arms just
focusing on your breath hands are
forward on your knees left arm reaches
forward
inhale as you exhale make that fog on a
window and cross around the
baby and inhale
reach good and exhale bring that elbow
right back in other side inhale reach
exhale wrap around your
baby and
inhale very nice job and
exhale good breathing hands on the knees
I want you to relax through the
shoulders and draw your neck to the
right side of your body and just relax
the neck forward we're going to do some
should or some neck rolls
rolling relaxing through the
neck now you're going to reverse
directions of other side letting that
stress go that you may be carrying
through the
neck nice now looking up at me bring
your shoulders forward and let your
shoulders just fall back one more time
big shoulder roll
inhale
exhale nice now bring your arms to the
side and you're going to make your
thumbs up your fingers are coming in
this is called Vanishing fear I want you
to think about fear going away as you
replace that fear with faith the belief
in yourself to carry a healthy baby
you're going to
inhale exhale bring your thumbs next to
your ears exhale and inhale picking up
your pace breathing in and out through
the nose exhale inhale exhale inhale
very nice
Pace continue on about 30 seconds think
of having very strong arms strong upper
body inhale exhale inhale
exhale your eyes can be closed or open
whatever you'd like8 and seven and six
and five
[Music]
good last one now bring the arms up roll
the Palms up reaching to the ceiling
relaxing through your shoulders so
there's no tension through your
shoulders this exercise is called
emotional balance you're going to in
inhale two exhale two as if you were
Fanning your ceiling inhale two exhale
two again opening your eyes or closing
your eyes whatever you feel comfortable
in 2
exhale think of balancing bringing the
positive in letting the negative go
focus on the breath you're doing great
job and eight and seven good focus on
that breath
now bring your arms up inhale looking up
at the hands reach as far as you can out
to the sides of your room feeling your
energy through the middle fingers as you
draw the arms down making a fist with
the left hand and with the right hand
bring those hands behind your back and
open through the chest just drawing the
chest open feeling it stretch through
the chest lengthening through the back
smile and take a deep breath in this
should feel good find joy in the
movement very nice work now lengthen
your legs and we're going to work on
your lower body a little bit you're
going to work on your inner thighs if
the towel seems like it's in your way a
little bit you can move it you're going
to bring your feet out squeezing your
heels together I I want you to work your
inner thighs again staying lengthened
through the back just squeeze those legs
together squeeze those heels together
working through those inner thighs just
squeeze press together press together
lots of work going on you're working so
hard your heels are off the floor and
eight more slow eight squeeze seven
every time squeezing a little bit harder
working through those quads and inner
thighs very nice work now let's hold
those heels together tiny little presses
just for four and three and two and one
now holding the legs together place the
fingers on the shoulders you're going to
draw the elbows up and just release
through the back release good elbows up
extend through the chest good and then
collapse making a sea around your baby
great flexibility through the
spine and inhale extend
and
exhale
inhale and
inhale
exhale
inhale exhale last two inhale good
exhale one more and
exhale nice now just lengthen through
the spine relaxing through those legs
we're going to continue working into
your legs remove the towel and just Rel
relax down onto your elbows your right
heel has you as your left leg comes up
you're going to keep your toe pointed
ready let's begin lift and lower just
lengthen that leg very nice and inhale
and then
exhale great work at home four more lift
and lower last
three nice focusing on the breath last
one good now turn your toe out flexing
through the foot we're going to do some
circles out good
Circle very nice job four take your time
three and last two we're going to do the
same thing but reverse directions you're
still working through that inner thigh
lots of work going on through the legs
nicely done two more and one more and
then let's lift and lower so lift lower
then bring the foot out and then in good
lift lower out and in you have four more
good focusing on the breath good and out
two more lots of work through the legs
you're doing super nice last one and
let's replace the left leg with the
right leg shake your legs out for a
minute and let's draw the heels out
again pointing the toes and let's lift
and lower very nice lift and lower
inhale exhale lift and lower last
four last three good you have two
more one more you don't have to lift
that leg very high good now turn your
toe out lifting through the heel lift
down out and in and then we'll do our
circles at the end nice good last four
down out and in
three very nice work we have two more
lift out last one and we're ready for
our circles ready begin circle circle
good four and three and two and one
reverse directions ready begin and six 5
4 3 and two and one bring the legs down
slowly help yourself up you're going to
stretch through those inner thighs so
left leg comes out right leg comes out
and as if you were reaching toward me
and I was pulling your arms toward me
just lean forward and feel a stretch and
you don't have to go very far to feel
this stretch place the hands on the
inner thighs and just stretch through
those legs good now bring yourself up
bring the left leg in bring the right
leg in and continue to continue to
stretch through those legs nice draw the
elbows into the
legs nice and then just lengthen through
the back and take a deep breath
in and
exhale you are now warmed up ready to
move
on welcome to joyful movement this
segment will challenge your balance and
get your heart pumping bring your
opposite arm up your opposite leg up as
we start in a March ready inhale
exhale very nice work in X and INX eyes
are closed or open close will challenge
your
balance very nice gather energy think of
working hard inhaling exhaling excellent
job last eight and seven good six and
five last four good three and two and
one now reaching down for your towel
you're going to bring your legs out into
a PL position whatever is comfortable
for you you can be a little wider than
me or a little closer together you're
pulling that towel apart feeling that
upper body work we're just going to draw
circles bringing those arms up to the
ceiling and then sweeping down bending
the legs just as low as you want to go
and
inhale exhale sweep
inhale and exhale picking up our Pace a
little bit here we go Circle and lift
Circle and lift very
nice
good couple
more nice last one you're going to hold
at the top now reverse directions dry
those shoulders down and back ready
let's begin to the left ready Circle
lift Circle and lift very nice exhale
inhale reach good five
more
lift good breathing Misty I'm hearing
you couple more last two and last one
hold at the very top now just bring the
towel down little paa you're just going
to drop the legs out and then lift drop
and lift nice let's bring the arms up in
front of you lift and lower very good
work at home you can work as hard as you
want to going as low as you want to good
couple more last
two and last one now hold a little bit
lower bringing the arms out just pull
that towel apart feel that work through
the upper body now bring the towel right
down here little presses through the
heels want you to feel like you're
working through those legs feel that
strength feel your energy hopefully this
is getting your heart working nice job
we have eight more eight and seven going
a little bit lower if you want to
challenge yourself nice last three press
and press now if you want to you can
alternate your heels ready begin with
the right and the
left good excellent job eight more and
seven six and five last four last three
and two and one let's just hold as low
as you can and then just lengthen
through the legs reaching up with the
towel
inhale nice shoulders draw down and back
and then exhale bring the towel in front
of you step together set the towel to
the side
now moving into some balance poses left
leg has you right toe comes forward and
then just turn your hip out your toe
stays on the floor draw the hands
together as you come into a tree pose
lots of balance here reaching up to the
ceiling soft arms holding this pose your
elbows are soft think of breathing from
your baby's
home focus on focusing on
concentrating
balance
good hold two more breaths
inhale
exhale one more
breath
exhale good open up through the arms and
just bring your tree down opening now
bring your knee forward place the left
foot on the floor relax those legs
relaxing through the hips now left leg
has you right leg comes forward again
opening through the hip bring the ankle
heel into the ankle bring the arms
together nice just above your baby and
again breathing from your baby's home
let's begin to
inhale and hold soft shoulders soft
elbows hold the pose three breaths
[Music]
one more breath you're doing
great
exhale nice bring the arms up reaching
those arms out lengthen through the arms
bringing the knee in and just relax very
nice job let's release through the back
here and just do a couple shoulder or
circles with the hips Circle those hips
and just relax relax the hips stretching
through the lower back this should feel
good good let's reverse directions bring
the other direction
around one more
time nice one more balance exercise
bring your arms up inhale your legs are
very wide Palms are together I'm going
to bring you down into a squatting pose
So Soft knees again following Monica or
Misty for
modification exhale draw yourself down
try to keep your heels on the floor if
you notice that your heels are not on
the floor you may want to give yourself
some extra padding like putting your
heels on a towel bring the elbows into
the knees stretch those inner thighs
nicely done bring the hands down in
front of you now extend the back of the
legs feel the stretch relax your head
top of the head to the mat and take your
time roll yourself
up beautiful work one more time time
deep breath in arms
up Palms together exhale draw yourself
down pressing those hands
together and hold feel the stretch
through your inner thighs great work now
place the hands in front of you again
lengthen through the back of the legs
draw the chin towards your chest and
soften your knees begin to roll up one
vertebrae at a
time very very nice work and one more
time deep breath in arms up this time
step together with your legs and exhale
hinging forward at the hips forward at
the hips good just lengthen now draw
yourself forward with the left hand
bending the knees into a kneeling
position good holding here release into
a child's pose making room for baby
bringing those knees out and release and
stretch through the back this is a great
stretch draw those armpits into the
floor good hold and
relax welcome to strength and stretch
going to take you on all four positions
so just reaching over to the side come
on to all
fours anytime your back hurts throughout
your pregnancy I want you to remember
this series stretches you're going to
curl your back up like a cat and just
push up to the ceiling chin to the chest
curl and then come back down to a
neutral spine you can have space between
the knees and take your right shoulder
to your right hip and just feel that
stretch that should feel
good and then other side drawing the
shoulder into the
hip great stretch
and then back to a neutral spine again
cat curl up pushing up to the ceiling
draw that chin to your chest curling
around your
baby back to a neutral
spine excellent job again right shoulder
into the right hip feel the
stretch and then other side very nice
feel that
stretch good now we're going to strength
and your lower back your hands have you
and you can definitely follow Monica she
comes down onto her elbows left leg
comes back and lift and then curl and
Tuck again lift lengthen and down curl
take your time lift
lengthen down and curl very nice lift
lengthen and down curl continue on
strengthening that back taking your time
in the movement two more lift
lengen down and in last one and lift
this one you will hold now flex your
foot just bring the heel into the glutes
lift and Extend Stay tall on those
shoulders never sinking into your
shoulders excellent work lift and extend
very nice work Monica very very nice
work Misty squeeze through that
hamstring two
more last one and hold from here place
the foot to the ceiling little presses
up and up very nice lift and lift great
work
good and eight more little presses you
should be feeling those right glutes
work or left glutes rather good four
more four and three
last two last one bring the knee in
opposite leg comes up extend let's begin
lifting ready lift up and then bring the
knee in and Tuck very nice take your
time lift extend make sure your weight
is equal on the hands spreading the
weight through the
fingers find fluid in this movement and
lift nice down
and curl lift
lengthen down and curl couple more lift
stretch excellent work last one and lift
and you will hold flex your foot heel to
your glute ready begin in and
extend in and extend staying tall on
those shoulders excellent job great work
you're doing good four more more four
and
three
good this when you'll hold little
presses to the ceiling working those
glutes and lift your neck is neutral no
stress through the neck good last
[Music]
12 never holding your breath nice and
easy breath last seven and six five
breathing out on the
work ah nicely done bring the knee in
make space for your baby and draw
yourself back into child's pose Reaching
Forward
stretching relaxing into the stretch
relaxing your forehead into the
floor one deep breath
in good coming up out of child's pose
just reach over light and your
side relax into the arm you can have
your neck up supporting your head or you
can just reach and let that neck relax
into the arm whatever is comfortable for
you going to work your inner and outer
thighs your top leg is lifted and
extended your bottom leg just comes up
to tap that top leg so just lift and
then lower very nice job lift and lower
and lift and lower good now let's pick
pick up our Pace a little bit little
tapping ready let's lift and up very
good lift working through those inner
thighs lift as high as you feel
comfortable going nice continue on eight
more eight last seven six good
work nice
breathing good now hold slow it down
again for four release and three and
down last
two and last one very good now top leg
circles forward circles circles very
small circles nice four more four three
and two now reverse your circles ready
reverse reverse nice back and back
couple more four last three last two
last one sweep forward and back for
forward nice and slow here good forward
and back nice forward and back and
forward now just lift and lower lift
you're keeping your hips forward and not
rolling those hips very good lift and
lower take your time you have four more
good
exhale nice last
three last two very good work for your
outer thigh
nice now bring the knees into the chest
and help yourself up to a sitting
position swing the legs forward coming
on to the opposite side resting those
hips into the
floor you can also have a pillow here to
support your belly if it's more
comfortable extend that top leg and lift
bottom leg comes up to meet the top leg
ready let's begin lift and lower very
nice lift lift and lower working those
inner thighs
squeeze
good and four more slow let's pick up
our Pace here little lift up there you
go lift and lift nice work up and up and
eight more little lifts last eight and
seven good six and five four more four
good slow your pace down again ready
begin lift and lower hold at the top
lift and lower last two up and last one
good now it's the top legs turn to work
let's Circle forward Circle small
circles like the size of a canalou good
and four more three and two you're doing
great let's reverse ready back seven
good six and five nice work four four
continue on strong good now sweep the
leg forward and back slow sweep and back
not too far no pressure on the belly
good and one more now lift and lower for
eight here we go just lift keep those
hips forward nice good six more exhale
inhale lift and lower last four strong
legs think of lengthening through those
legs last
two and last one ah nice and releasing
through the legs bring the knees up walk
yourself
forward good walking yourself to the
other side you're going to bring the
left knee in and the right leg back
we're going to come into a pigeon
stretch so bring the heel out away from
you relaxing the hips down just feel the
stretch through those outer thighs nice
opening through the
chest holding
here one more breath
inhale
exhale bring the back of the leg in and
stretch continue to stretch nice two
more
breaths
exhale one more breath
inhale exhale
nice releasing the back leg you're going
to come into a seated position facing
me again think of lengthening through
the spine drawing the shoulders down and
back I want you to stretch through your
wrists as we were on those wrists for a
little while bring the hands down just
roll through those wrists and bring your
arms up to the ceiling staying nice and
tall as if a string were pulling you
from the top of your head to your
ceiling now reverse directions all the
way down nice fluid
breathing
good nice now again I want you to think
about connecting with your baby left
hand on your baby right hand on your
chest good think about that little baby
growing inside you maybe think about
slowing your pace right now as this
little baby grows inside you focus on
the breathing in
inhale exhale as if you were making that
fog relaxing through your shoulders one
more breath think of connecting
inhale
[Music]
exhaling good now bring your hands
forward into a position that's
comfortable for you I would like you to
visualize a space at the top of your
head and through that space there's an
opening and I want you to gather
positive energy through through that
opening and that positive energy is
going to replace any negative that you
might have you're going to breathe that
negative away focusing right between
your eyebrows with that cleansing breath
let's begin ready inhale gather good
energy and exhale letting the negative
the fear just let it
go good eyes can be open or they can be
closed inhaling gather
good exhale releasing the negative
good three more breaths
gather
exhale two more breaths
in
exhale last deep breath in
inhale
exhaling focusing on this time being a
great time in your life open your eyes
going to stretch again reaching the left
arm up and over just stretch to the side
letting the elbow fall into the floor
and then switch letting this movement
become fluid other direction
exhale nice and
inhale and
exhale
inhale
exhale nice last two
inhale and
exhale nice now lengthening through
through the spine drawing the chest open
Palms are up take a deep breath in arms
out exhale reaching as far as you can to
the corners of the room that you're and
lengthening through the middle finger
drawing the shoulders down and back and
one more deep breath in arms up closing
the hands together the hands stay in
front of you into a namaste position the
good in me sees the good in you and your
ability to be a great mother
[Music]